---
title: "TIL 0042"
date: "2018-06-10"
---

### Competencies Proficiency Scale

How do you measure or represent your ability to do your job? 

In thinking through this question and reading up on some sources, I came across this page, which I think is a good frame from which to work. The [NIH Competencies Proficiency Scale](https://hr.nih.gov/working-nih/competencies/competencies-proficiency-scale). Essentially, your proficiency is broken down into 5 levels: 

#Their words: 

* Fundamental Awareness (basic knowledge) 
    * You have a common knowledge or an understanding of basic techniques and concepts. 
    
* Novice (limited experience) 
    * You have the level of experience gained in the classroom or as a trainee. 
    * You are expected to need help performing this skill. 
    * You understand and can discuss terminology, concepts, principles and issues related to this competency. 
    * You utilize the full range of reference and resource materials in this competency. 

* Intermediate (practical application)
    * You are able to successfully complete tasks in this competency as requested. 
    * Help from an expert may be required from time to time, but you can usually perform the skill independently. 
    * You have applied this competency to situations occassionally while needing minimal guidance to perform successfully. 

* Advanced (applied theory)
    * You can perform the actions associated with this skill without assistance. 
    * You are certainly recognized within your immediate organization as a "person to ask" when difficult questions arise regarding this skill. 
    
* Expert (recognized authority) 
    * You are known as an expert in this area. 
    * You can provide guidance, troubleshoot and answer questions related to this area of expertise and the field where the skill is used.

#My words: 

* Fundamental awareness
    * You have watched a Udemy course or two on the topic and you can start to incorporate this into your own work. 
    * You will need to Google and Stack Exchange. A lot.  

* Novice
    * You know enough to start. 
    * You can cobble things together, figure them out as you go but chances are good you will be spending a lot of time on things, that a more experienced developer will solve quite quickly. 
    * Trial and error is a big part of your repertoire. 
    * You are primarily concerned with getting something to work rather than to work well. 
    * You don't know what you don't know. 
    * Your ability to read and comprehend code is limited. 

* Intermediate
    * You can build stuff and you know enough to have opinions on what you have built (good and bad). 
    * You refer more to the MDN and developer docs directly, because you are looking for the *gist*. 
    * You understand the building blocks and are looking for information that is more directional, than it is specific. 
    * Likely, once you have built a few things, you will start to recognise the short-comings of your implementations and become more concerned with patterns, structure, efficiency and style. 
    * Importantly, you can, for the most part, solve your own problems. 
    * You are becoming aware of what you don't know, you have pretty good ideas on what you need to get better at.
    * You know bad code when you see it, but you aren't thoroughly versed in how to improve it - you know it should be improved and you have some ideas to go on. 

* Advanced
    * You have been round the block more than a few times. 
    * You can solve small problems quite quickly and most importantly, you can solve hard problems others are struggling with. 
    * Your code is generally well structured, well written and hopefully shows good style. 
    * People tend to call on you to help solve issues they are facing. 
    * You know bad code when you see it and you immediately have solid suggestions and approaches to improving it.  

* Expert
    * You are solving problems most people don't even know exist. 
    * You are creating what everyone else uses. 
    * You are likely proficient in more than one language and could pick another up quickly. 
 



