---
title: "TIL 0023"
date: "2018-01-01"
---
### Eloquent JavaScript Chapter 3: Functions

* Recursion - Generally, recursion can be up to 10 times slower than looping. However, recursion can be more elegant, as such, the programmer must determine whether efficiency or simplicity is more appropriate. 
<pre>

    function power(base, exponent) {
        if (exponent == undefined) {
            exponent = 2;
        }

        var result = 1;

        for (var count = 0; count < exponent; count++) {
            result *= base;
        }
        
        return result;
    }

    function powerR(base, exponent) {
        if (exponent == 0)
            return 1;
        else
            return base * power(base, exponent - 1);
    }

    console.log("Recursive: ", powerR(2, 3));
    console.log("Loop: ", power(2,3));

</pre>
* Closures - The ability to reference an instance of a local variable in an enclosing function.
<pre>
function multiplier(factor) {
    return function(number) {
            console.log("Factor: ", factor, " Number: ", number);
            return number * factor;
        };
    }

    var twice = multiplier(3);
    console.log(twice(5));
</pre>
* Lexical scope is the variable 'visibility' of variables within a program via combinations of scope. Essentially, local scopes have access to those scope around them. They do not have access to scopes inside of them.  
* Function declarations can be placed anywhere within the program as they are effectively hoisted to the top of the scope when running. 

<pre>
    foo('bar');
    // function declaration
    function foo(string) {
        console.log('Foo', string);
    }
</pre>

* Expression functions need to be declared before they are used. 
<pre>
    // function definition
    var foo = function(string) {
        return 'Foo' + string;
    }
    console.log(foo('bar'));
</pre>
* In JavaScript you can have optional arguments/parameters. If there are too many, the extras get ignored. If there are too few, the missing params get undefined. 
* There are basically two ways functions are introduced: 
Replication - You find there is code repeated in your program and you write a function to remove this repetition.
Purpose - You have something you need to do, so you write a function to do it. 

<blockquote>'How difficult it is to find a good name for a function is a good indication of how clear a concept it is that you’re trying to wrap.' - Marijn Haverbeke</blockquote>

* There are generally three types of functions: 
Pure functions - return values and receive values, they do not access global variables or have side effects. They do not rely on side-effects from elsewhere. 
Side effect functions - do not return a value and typically adjust globals. These can be difficult to reason about. 
Combination functions - these are functions that combine both the approaches