---
title: "TIL 0024"
date: "2018-01-02"
---

### PowerShell, Plain JS Post, Enabling CORS on Express and Express Body Parser

* Determine the version of PowerShell you are running: $PSVersionTable.PSVersion
* Determine the execution policy on PowerShell (this is necessary to determine whether you can ru PowerShell scripts): Get-ExecutionPolicy
* Useful resource for setting up Invoke-RestMethod calls via PowerShell scripts | [Link](https://www.jokecamp.com/blog/invoke-restmethod-powershell-examples/)
* Enable CORS on an Express server | [Link](https://enable-cors.org/server_expressjs.html)
<pre>
    app.use(function(req, res, next) {
    res.header("Access-Control-Allow-Origin", "*");
    res.header("Access-Control-Allow-Headers", "Origin, X-Requested-With, Content-Type, Accept");
    next();
    });
</pre>
* To use req.body inside of Express you need to load Body Parser | [Link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10005939/how-do-i-consume-the-json-post-data-in-an-express-application/10007542#10007542)
* First install it: npm i body-parser
<pre>
var express = require('express);
var bodyParser = require('body-parser');

var app = express();

app.use(bodyParser.json());

app.post('/', function(req, res) {
    console.log(req.body);
})
app.listen(8000);
</pre>
* In package.json check: "main": "app.js", then you can just run: nodemon instead of: nodemon app.js
* npm i pug --save
* mkdir view && cd_$
* touch index.pug
* Then:
<pre>
    app.set('view engine', 'pug');
    ..
    app.get('/', (req, res) => {
        res.render('index', {title='Hello world!'});
    });
</pre>
* Pug templating 101 (Assume we have var colors = ['red', 'blue', 'green'])
<pre>
    doctype html
    html(lang="en")
        head
            title= title
        body
            div.wrapper
            .content
            ul
                each color in colors
                   li color
            p#main Hi!
            #secondary
            if hint 
                p
                    i Hint: #{hint}
            else 
                p (There is no hint)
</pre>
* Pug locals
<pre>
    app.get('/cards', (req, res) => {
        res.locals.prompt = "What is your question?";
        res.locals.hint = "Think about something."; // interpolated from #{hint} above
        res.render('card');
        // res.render('card', {prompt: 'What is your...', hint: 'Think about...'});
    });
</pre>
* Pug Partials <br/>
In the layout.pug file (along with a: mkdir includes)
<pre>
...
header 
    include includes/header.pug
...
block content
...
    include includes/footer.pug
</pre>
In the index.pug file: 
<pre>
extends layout.pug

block content
    section#wrapper
        h1 Hello world!
</pre>

### Eloquent JavaScript Chapter 4: Data Structures

* Almost all JavaScript values have properties except null and undefined.
* value.prop prop must be a valid variable name and directly names the propery.
* value[prop] prop is **evaluated** to get the property name. 
* The elements of an array are stored in properties with numbers for their names. 
* Properties that contain functions are called methods. Examples are .toUppercase, .toLowerCase for strings. Array have pop(), push(), .join() amongst others. 
* You can delete an object property with: delete object.propertyName;
* console.log("propertyName" in object); // false
* array.shift(); will return (and remove) the first item in the array, as opposed to .pop() which will return and remove the last item in the array. 
* Similarly .unshift() add an item to the beginning of an array and .push() adds an item to the end of an array. 
* indexOf(x) returns the index of the first instance of x in the array whereas lastIndexOf(x) returns the index of the last instance of x in the array. Both take an optional second argument to indicate where to start the search from. 
* .slice() takes two parameters, start(inclusive), end(exclusive) and returns an array of the items between start and end. If no second parameter is supplied, it takes all the items after the start.
<pre>
console.log([0, 1, 2, 3, 4].slice(2, 4));
console.log([0, 1, 2, 3, 4].slice(2));
</pre> 
* array1.concat(array2); will put two arrays into one and return the resulting array. 
* "   somestring  \n".trim(); will remove all the whitespace (spaces, tabs, newlines) from the string
* Strings, numbers and booleans are not objects and are **immutable** which means you cannot add properties to them. 
* Whenever a function is called, a special variable names 'arguments' is added to the environment in which the function body runs. arguments has a .length property. 
* Math.random();
<pre>
console.log(Math.floor(Math.random()*10));
</pre>
* All global variables are stored in the global object, that is window.
<pre>
var myVar = 10;
console.log("myVar" in window);
console.log(window.myVar);
</pre>